I've been an engineer for nearly a
decade and in all of that time right now
process has never been more important.
At your fingertips now you have access
to a fleet of middling to good engineers
that you can deploy at any time. But the
weird thing about these engineers is
they have no memory. They do not
remember things they've done before. And
so you need extremely strict and
well-defined processes to get those
agents to actually do things that are
useful. So this means that you as a
developer are looking constantly for
ways to steer your agents to keep them
on the right track. And for me that has
resulted in a lot of skill building.
Here's the repo of all the skills that
I'm using right now. Each of which I
have gone through and designed. Some of
these I use relatively rarely but some
of them I use every single day. And
these skills help me encode my process.
So the AI has a really strict path it
can walk down every single time. And as
a result of using all of these skills,
the code quality that the AI is
producing has shot up. Now, if you think
that process is important and that real
engineering skills are important, then
boy, do I have a course for you. This
course is called Claude Code for Real
Engineers. It's a 2 week cohort that
starts on March 30th and for seven more
days, it is 40% off. If you feel like
you're behind the curve on Claude Code
and you want to get way ahead of the
curve in just two weeks, then blime me,
this is the place for you. Let's start
talking about our skills with number
one, which is maybe my favorite. This is
the grill me skill. This skill, yes, it
is just three sentences long. And let's
just read it out in full to describe
what it does. Interview me relentlessly
about every aspect of this plan until we
reach a shared understanding. Walk down
each branch of the design tree,
resolving dependencies between decisions
one by one. And finally, if a question
can be answered by exploring the
codebase, explore the codebase instead.
The concept of a design tree comes from
this book by Frederick P. Brooks, which
is the design of design. Actually, I
don't know if it comes from this book,
but this book is where I saw it first.
The design tree is this idea that as
you're coming towards a design, you need
to walk down all of the branches of a
design tree. For instance, you might be
designing a search page and you need to
decide whether you want an advanced
search or a text box. If you choose
advanced search, then you need to figure
out all of the filters and all of the
sorting methods that you need on
advanced search. and you keep on walking
down the tree until you figure out your
design kind of in full or as full as you
can before actually committing to code.
This grill me skill when I invoke it, I
invoke it when I want to reach a shared
understanding with the LLM. I found that
relatively recently claude code will
tend to just spit out a plan really
early when I go in plan mode and it
tends to just create a document before I
feel I've reached a shared understanding
with the LLM. But the grill me skill
forces that conversation. and it forces
the LLM to interview me about every
single part. Here's a conversation I had
with Claude recently about adding a
feature to my course video editor
codebase. I gave it some research that I
done in a markdown file and I said,
"Grill me. I'd like to think about
adding this to the right page." It
loaded up the skill and the thing I want
to show you is just how many questions
it asked me. So, the first thing it did
is it just explored the relevant stuff
in the codebase, which is good. Then we
zoom down. We can see it asked question
one, where does the document live?
Question two, what's the UI layout?
Question three, which modes get the
document panel? Question four, the
document life cycle? Question five, what
does the right document tool look like?
Question six, the edit tool shape.
Question seven, question all the way
down to question 9. Question 10,
question 11, question 12, all the way
down to question freaking 16 here. And
this is a relatively short grilling
session in my book. I've had sessions
where I've sat there for nearly half an
hour, 45 minutes with the AI answering
questions on really complex features.
you know, that could be 30, 40, 50
questions all from this absolutely tiny
skill. That's one thing I want you to
take from this. Skills don't have to be
long to be impactful. You've just got to
choose the right words for the LLM at
the right time. And this design tree,
resolving dependencies, has just been
absolutely great for me. By the way, if
you want these skills, then they will be
at a link below. Once I have reached a
shared understanding with the LLM, once
I have grilled my idea and sort of
understood all of its ramifications, if
I then decide I want to implement it,
then I invoke my next skill, which is a
write a PRD skill. I actually did this
in the conversation we were just looking
at. So, it said anything I've missed or
got wrong and I said write a PRD. I was
suffixing it with user because I have
some that sort of live in the project.
So, that's the reason why I did that.
Here's what the skill looks like. This
will be invoked when the user wants to
create a PRD. You may skip steps if you
don't consider them necessary. So for
instance, in the previous conversation,
it said, "We've already done a deep
interview. Let's move to step four." So
step one is to ask the user for a long
detailed description. Then number two is
to explore the repo to verify their
assertions. Number three is basically to
interview the user relentlessly. So just
a copy of the grill me skill again.
Next, we sketch out the major modules
you will need to build or modify to
complete the implementation. We're going
to look at this later because it links
to skills I'm going to show you in a bit
in this video. And finally, once you
have a complete understanding of the
problem and the solution, use the
template below to write the PRD and the
PRD should be submitted as a GitHub
issue. The way that my dev flow works is
I take these PRDs in GitHub. I turn them
into more GitHub issues that reference
the parent PRD and then I have a Ralph
loop that just loops over each issue
until it's done. If we go back to the
conversation where we were before, we
can see that it created this PRD here.
This was 4 days ago. As you can see,
we've got a problem statement. The
article writing page currently
regenerates the entire document on every
AI interaction. And the solution was to
add a split pane document editing
experience to the article writer. Chat
stays on the left. A new document panel
blah blah blah. So this is a big
feature. We're adding document editing
to a kind of AI chat feature. The
important thing here is the user
stories. There are many many user
stories as part of this and this comes
from agile methodology and we're
basically trying to describe the kind of
desired behavior of our system in
language which is not an easy thing to
do. I still haven't properly like landed
on the right format for these. This is
just something I sort of like, but you
could easily use like cucumber language
for these or whatever your kind of used
to do used to working with. We then zoom
down to the bottom and we just sort of
pass in some implementation decisions.
The implementation decisions here we
don't want to be like overprescriptive
because we want these to be durable
because if the code ends up getting out
of date with the PRD, then we're going
to have issues when we actually go to
implement it. But you can see the theory
here. This is the kind of uh it's a
really good description of the
destination that we're going to. But
what we don't have from the PRD is the
actual journey is the is the way we're
going to get to this destination. And if
we leap back to that conversation, this
is where I use my next one, which is PRD
to issues. What this does is it takes a
PRD, takes the destination, and it turns
it into a canon board of different
issues that can be independently
grabbed. So the first step in here is it
locates the PRD. If the PD is not
already in your context window, fetch it
with this instruction. Explore the
codebase if you need to. And then
draft vertical slices. It's not always
clear how you should break a PRD down
into individual tasks. This is something
that developers have been doing for
yonks, right? And we've developed a kind
of intuition for how to do it. In my
opinion, the best way to do it is to
break it into tasks that flush out the
unknown unknowns really quickly. For
instance, if you're integrating with a
new kind of service or integrating two
things which you haven't integrated
before, then you should do that work
first because it's going to give you
feedback on whether your approach is
even valid. The right analogy here is
the tracer bullet analogy. I won't go
into what that means, but basically each
issue is a thin vertical slice that cuts
through all integration layers, not a
horizontal slice of one layer. In the
conversation, it broke down that really
complicated PRD into just four slices.
It first created a kind of engine with
some tests applied to it. This is
actually quite a good vertical slice
because this was the engine that was
going to then power the rest of the kind
of setup. If this engine wasn't working
for whatever reason or it wasn't
feasible, then we would need to flush
that out quickly. And this is what this
um breakdown does. The PRD2 issues also
establishes blocking relationships
between the tasks. For instance, number
two here is not actually blocked by
anything. So, it can be picked up
independently to one. This is really
useful if you have a parallel agent
setup where you can actually fire two
agents at it at once for instance in
like background tasks. And it also means
that in the future you can add other
issues to this like uh QA issues that
you find or things that need to be
improved. And you can then establish
blocking relationships between that and
all of the other things. We can see that
number three here is blocked by one the
editing engine and the number four the
Monaco editor toggle is blocked by
number two. So I said yes to all of
these and it created then all of these
GitHub issues. These issues reference
the parent PRD so that the uh local
agent can fetch it and view it and it
sort of just breaks down what to build
really and crucially it references the
previous user stories in the PRD. We can
then see a comment actually from claude
code that ended up implementing this. It
said a pure function document editing
engine with 28 tests covering all
acceptance criteria. And we can then
take a look at the commit that
references this issue. So this was
basically my Ralph loop came and just
implemented this based on the issue,
commented on it, closed it and uh then
the next issue was unblocked. So so far
the grill me skill can help you flesh
out an idea. The write a PRD skill can
help you take that idea and turn it into
a document and then the PRD is or PRD to
issue skill helps you then turn that
destination document into an actual
journey. But then how do you actually
execute on that skill? How do you make
it like how do you make the
implementation really rock solid and
increase the code quality of what gets
produced? We have got a TDD skill. TDD
means testdriven development. And when
you invoke this skill, it basically
forces the agent or encourages the agent
rather to follow a red green refactor
loop. Unusually for my skills, there is
actually a lot in here. So it's not just
the skill itself. It's also uh ideas on
refactoring, on mocking, on what deep
modules are. doing really really good.
TDD has been the most consistent way
that I've improved agents outputs. So
let's have a look at what's actually in
here. What we can see is I'll just skip
over the philosophy stuff. I'll let you
guys read that. We are basically looking
at this workflow. Yeah. Now the first
one here is really important. Confirm
with the user what interface changes are
needed. Now I made a video on interfaces
and implementations recently, but let me
just give you the prey. When an AI looks
at a bad codebase, it will look at or it
will see something like this where it
has a ton of tiny modules here that are
kind of undifferiated. They're not
really grouped together. It doesn't
really understand how these things
relate. And so it has to do a lot of
work kind of working out, okay, what's
responsible for what? What are the
dependencies? How does this actually
how's the codebase even function?
Whereas if you restructure this into
several larger modules with just kind of
thin interfaces on top, the interface
being the functions that are actually
exported from this, the uh things that
the callers actually call, then it's a
lot easier for AI to navigate this
codebase and it's a lot easier to work
out how to test these modules because
you just test them at their interfaces.
You test them at their boundaries. You
can check out the whole video on that
below. So what this TDD skill is
encouraging here is basically trying to
make these interface changes really uh
top of mind for the AI to get it to
understand that when it changes an
interface that's an important decision
it needs to take time over. You confirm
with the user which behaviors to test.
You design the interfaces for
testability linking to a dock and then
we have some more stuff around planning
here. It then goes into a lovely loop
where it writes one test at a time and
it writes the test first. Now, I've
talked about red green refactor before.
So, I'll link the video below if you're
interested. But I found that red green
refactor with agents is incredible, and
it basically does this loop until it's
complete. It just writes a failing test,
then writes the code to make that test
pass. Then, finally, it goes through and
looks for refactor candidates. I haven't
found that this is amazing. It hasn't
been brilliant because often LLMs are
quite uh you know, they're quite
reluctant to refactor their own code. If
you were to clear the context of the
LLM, then it would just sort of wipe its
own memory and it would be a lot less
precious about the code that it's just
written. But while its own code is
sitting in its own context window, it's
quite reluctant to change it. So this
TDD skill is what I prompt my Ralph
loops with in order to get them to do
red green refactor. Now TDD demands a
lot of you, or rather it demands a lot
of your codebase. TDD is really hard to
do in a badly structured codebase
because the test boundaries of this are
really unclear. Should it just sort of
test these modules on their own? Should
it test these modules on their own? What
are the boundaries here? Whereas, when
your codebase looks more like this, then
it's a lot easier to test because the
module boundaries are really clear. So,
wouldn't it be great if there was a
skill that made your codebase look more
like this? Well, isn't it nice? We've
got an improve codebase architecture
skill. The process for this one is that
we explore the codebase and explore it
kind of like naturally as an agent
would. We're trying to find confusions.
We're not like we're trying to sort of
surface naturally what the AI finds
confusing so that it can then sort of
like help it out later. Where does
understanding one concept require
bouncing around between many small
files? Where have pure functions been
extracted just for testability, but the
real bugs hide in how they're called?
Where do tightly coupled modules create
integration risk in the seams between
them? All of these are questions that a
senior engineer would be asking about
your codebase. Number two is you present
candidates. So you present a numbered
list of deepening opportunities. In
other words, opportunities to deepen
shallow modules in your codebase into
deeper ones. The user then picks a
candidate and then you design multiple
interfaces. So it says to spawn three
sub aents in parallel, each of which
must produce a radically different
interface for the deepen module. In
other words, we're extracting that code
and designing possible ways that it
could look in the future. designing it
in multiple different ways is a really
great way that you can then decide on
the right idea. I've seen this agent
spawn like five different sub aents for
a really big refactor. The coolest thing
about this is you don't need to know a
lot about interface design in order to
get this working. After comparing, give
them your recommendation which design
you think is strongest and why. And if
elements from different designs would
combine well, then propose a hybrid.
Notice that I've made this really
language agnostic, really kind of sort
of everything agnostic really. You can
just run this in any codebase and just
get a decent answer for how it could be
improved. There might be four or five
candidates that really could use some
work, but really I think you should only
be sort of doing one of these at a time
because they really are quite hard to
get your head around and they require a
human in the loop to sit with them and
improve the codebase because these
decisions do require taste. Finally, it
creates a GitHub issue. So, it creates a
refactor RFC as a GitHub issue using GH
issue create. Usually once this is done,
I will then go with my PRD to issues uh
skill reference that GitHub issue that's
just been created and get it to you know
this describes the destination. We then
need a journey to get there. So just
doing this every so often in a codebase
you know once a week just to identify
opportunities or if you have a sudden
surge of development and you kind of
create a whole sort of extra wing of
features then this uh skill will be
really really useful in just making sure
it conforms to the rest of the codebase.
making sure that it's not uh too sloppy.
And as you keep running this, as you
keep refining your codebase, you're
going to notice the quality of the
agents output goes up. Because the old
adage really does apply. If you have a
garbage codebase, then the AI is going
to produce garbage within that codebase.
Because to be honest, if you took all of
these skills and just said, "Okay, this
is like a little mini markdown book of
processes for humans," then it wouldn't
look out of place. I found that the most
successful way to get code quality up
from agents is just to treat them like
humans. Humans with weird constraints.
Sure, humans that uh have no memory and
are just sort of cloned come out of the
birthing pod and go right to work. But
if you like me think these real
engineering skills are super important,
then this course is absolutely for you.
What I noticed while I was creating the
course is that I'm really not teaching
Claude code that much. I'm teaching kind
of what are sub aents. I'm talking about
the constraints of LLMs, the sort of
weird smart zone, dumb zone stuff with
the context window. We're talking about
steering, which is essentially just a
way of documenting stuff inside your
codebase, how to tackle massive tasks,
understanding tracer bullets and
building those into our skills,
understanding how to build really great
feedback loops and doing exercises with
them, and crucially, how to hook these
up to an autonomous agent. Every part of
this course just sort of like leads onto
the other, and I'm super happy with how
it turned out. So, over the course of
two weeks, you'll be working through
that self-paced material with me as your
guide in Discord and on live office
hours. And if that sounds fun to you,
then the link is below. Thanks for
watching, folks. I'll be coming back
with a lot more stuff this week. What
would you like me to cover next? I find
the intersection between this real
engineering and AI is like it's such a
awesome place to make content about. But
anyway, thanks for watching and I will
see you in the next